---
layout: position
key: assistant-data-curator-01
category: curator
title: Assistant Data Curator
site: Harvard Medical School 
detail_link: https://sjobs.brassring.com/tgwebhost/jobdetails.aspx?jobId=1192537&PartnerId=25240&SiteId=5341&type=mail
---
# Duties & Responsibilities
Do you want to play a role in advancing our understanding of the human genome? Would you like to be at the forefronts as big data revolutionizes medical research? The Department of Biomedical Informatics at Harvard Medical School has an excellent opportunity available for an entry-level assistant data curator. 

We are the home to the Data Coordination and Integration Center (DCIC) for the NIH 4D Nucleome Project, which was launched in October 2015. 4D Nucleome is a $25 million per year NIH Common Fund program aiming to understand the principles behind the three-dimensional organization of the nucleus in space and time, via new mapping and imaging tools (https://commonfund.nih.gov/4Dnucleome/index). 

A major part of our task is to make sure the data generated by the consortium is well described with appropriate metadata, and therefore accessible and useful to the community at large. The assistant data curator will be tasked with monitoring day-to-day operations of the metadata curation and various error-checking processes. The individual will become an expert in specialized tools that are used for data collection and analysis.

Duties include:
- Review data and metadata submissions from consortium members.
- Produce documentation regarding data and metadata submissions.
- Respond to user requests.
- Test software releases.

# Basic Qualificiations
- Bachelors in Biology, Bioinformatics, Computer Science or a related field. 
- Computer skills, including word processing and spreadsheet applications

# Additional Qualifications
- Experience working in a biology research laboratory. 
- Experience with basic computer programming / scripting languages.
