---
layout: position
key: data-curator-02
category: curator
title: Senior Data Curator
site: Harvard Medical School 
             
---
We are looking for a motivated Senior Data Curator to join the Department of Biomedical Informatics at Harvard Medical School, for an exciting opportunity in steering how cutting-edge data from the NIH Common Fund [NIH Common Fund 4D Nucleome (4DN) Network](https://commonfund.nih.gov/4Dnucleome/index) will be collected, curated, and displayed.

The [4D Nucleome Network](www.4dnucleome.org)  applies cutting edge sequencing and microscopy experiments, and integrative data analysis to understand the principles underlying nuclear organization and the role nuclear organization plays in cellular function. The [4DN Data Coordination and Integration Center (DCIC)](dcic.4dnucleome.org) is hosted at the Department of Biomedical Informatics at Harvard Medical School. The DCIC collects, curates, stores, and processes the data generated by the Network, and contributes to the data integration efforts of the network.

The Senior Data Curator will be responsible for making sure that the data generated by the 4DN Network is FAIR: Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, and Re-usable. The curator will work very closely with the different 4DN centers to guide the data curation and submission process. Along with the rest of the curation team, the individual will take a leading role in the development of standards for describing new data sets. The curator will also take part in the specification and design of tools that integrate, search, and display the data, in collaboration with the software engineering and bioinformatics staff.

The Department of Biomedical Informatics is a leading hub for computational biology, translational bioinformatics, and precision medicine. Based on the Harvard Medical School Longwood Campus, the 4D Nucleome DCIC is part of a vibrant community of scientists, physicians, and engineers whose goal is to advance the boundaries of knowledge. The working environment combines the best features of a startup (fast pace, flexibility, flat hierarchies) with those of one of the leading medical schools (excellent benefits, outstanding opportunities for learning, great resources, name recognition).

# Basic Qualificiations
- PhD in Biology, Bioinformatics, or a related field and 3 years work experience, or a master’s degree and 5 years' experience in data curation.
- Technical expertise in genetics, molecular biology, bioinformatics or related field.
- Experience with modern high-throughput genomics or microscopy experiments and their data types.
- Experience with basic computer programming / scripting languages.

# Additional Qualifications
- Project management skills including team management, issue management, and change management.
- Ability to understand scientific literature, experimental. procedures and their limitations, and current needs of the research community.
- Strong verbal and written communication skills.
- Software development environments and version control.
- Python.
- OMERO.
- REST APIs, relational databases.

This is a two year grant funded position with the strong possibility of renewal.

# To apply
A cover letter and CV to [burak_alver@hms.harvard.edu](mailto:burak_alver@hms.harvard.edu).
