---
layout: position
key: data-curator-01
category: curator
title: Assistant Data Curator
site: Harvard Medical School 
             
---
Do you want to play a role in advancing our understanding of the human genome? Would you like to be at the forefronts as big data revolutionizes medical research? The Department of Biomedical Informatics at Harvard Medical School has an excellent opportunity available for an entry-level assistant data curator. 

The [4D Nucleome Network](http://www.4dnucleome.org)  applies cutting edge sequencing and microscopy experiments, and integrative data analysis to understand the principles underlying nuclear organization and the role nuclear organization plays in cellular function. The [4DN Data Coordination and Integration Center (DCIC)](http://dcic.4dnucleome.org) is hosted at the Department of Biomedical Informatics at Harvard Medical School. The DCIC collects, curates, stores, and processes the data generated by the Network, and contributes to the data integration efforts of the network.
 
A major part of our task is to make sure the data generated by the consortium is well described with appropriate metadata, and therefore accessible and useful to the community at large. The assistant data curator will be tasked with curating publications and experiments from the network. The individual will become an expert in the scientific literature of the 4DN nucleome and specialized tools that are used for data collection and analysis.

Duties include:
- Track publications from the network and data generated for those publications.
- Create records for the publications.
- Communicate with Network members to ensure the accuracy of the records..

# Basic Qualificiations
- Bachelors in Biology, Bioinformatics, or a related field.
- Ability to understand scientific literature.
- Strong verbal and written communication skills.

# Additional Qualifications
- Experience with basic computer programming / scripting languages.
- Experience working in a biology research laboratory

This is a one year grant funded position with the strong possibility of renewal.

# To apply
A cover letter and CV to [burak_alver@hms.harvard.edu](mailto:burak_alver@hms.harvard.edu).
