---
layout: position
key: scientist-03
title: Senior Bioinformatics Scientist
category: postdoc
site: Harvard Medical School
---

## Job Description

We are looking for a motivated computational biologist to join an
interdisciplinary team in building a cloud framework to analyze
NGS and imaging data on nuclear architecture.

The [4D Nucleome Network](http://www.4dnucleome.org)  applies cutting edge sequencing and microscopy experiments, and integrative data analysis to understand the principles underlying nuclear organization and the role nuclear organization plays in cellular function. The [4DN Data Coordination and Integration Center (DCIC)](http://data.4dnucleome.org) is hosted at the Department of Biomedical Informatics at Harvard Medical School. The DCIC collects, curates, stores, and processes the data generated by the Network, and contributes to the data integration efforts of the network.
 
The PhD level scientist will be part of the scientific team
responsible for constructing uniform processing pipelines for the 4DN Network data and the automation of their execution. The focus of the tool development will be on chromosome conformation capture based methods, and DNA-FISH based methods. The software development will be performed open source and the analysis execution will be implemented in the Amazon Cloud environment.

 
Depending on the expertise, the candidate can assume multiple of the
following tasks:

- developing new bioinformatics tools; 
- evaluating existing bioinformatics tools; 
- managing interactions with external tool developers to guide implementation of data standards; 
- wrapping analysis tools in Docker containers and building analysis pipelines with these tools; 
- testing and resolving any issues that arise in the execution of these pipelines; 
- contributing to data curators’ efforts to collect metadata associated with these tools, pipelines, and pipeline executions; 
- contributing to the software developers’ efforts in automating analysis pipeline executions.

## Basic Qualificiations

- PhD in Bioinformatics, Computer Science or related field and 3 years  postdoctoral experience.
- Proven track record demonstrating strong data analysis skills.
- Proficiency in Python

## Additional Experience

- Analysis of high-throughput sequencing data. 
- Analysis of 3C-based methods. 
- Software pipeline management.
- Image data analysis.
- Version Control, in particular Git.
- AWS environment.
- Open-source software development.
- OMERO

## To apply
Please send a cover letter and CV to [burak_alver@hms.harvard.edu](mailto:burak_alver@hms.harvard.edu).
