---
layout: position
key: scientist-04
title: Scientific Director
category: postdoc
site: Harvard Medical School
---

## Job Description

We are seeking an exceptional candidate with expertise in data analysis management and scientific consortium coordination to serve as the Scientific Director of the  [4DN Data Coordination and Integration Center (DCIC)](http://data.4dnucleome.org). This is an exciting opportunity in leading our Center to maximize the utility of cutting-edge data from a high profile NIH Common Fund Network.

The 4DN Network applies newest technology sequencing and imaging experiments, and integrative data analysis to understand the principles underlying the dynamics of nuclear organization and the role nuclear organization plays in human disease. The DCIC is hosted at the Department of Biomedical Informatics at Harvard Medical School ([DBMI](https://dbmi.hms.harvard.edu)]). We collect, curate, store, and process the data generated by the Network, and contribute to the data integration efforts of the Network.

The Scientific Director will work closely with the Principal
Investigator to define the goals and priorities of the Center in its
second five-year phase and will lead a team of developers,
bioinformatics scientists, and data wranglers to achieve these goals.

Responsibilities include:
- Oversee the day-to-day operation of the DCIC;
- Coordinate data wrangling, bioinformatics, and cloud infrastructure functions of the DCIC;
- Manage collaborations with other contributors to the DCIC;
- Represent DCIC in engaging with data production centers and other investigators;
- Attend consortium meetings and working group calls; present our progress to NIH and the consortium;
- Work with the Principal Investigator and all interested parties to ensure that the DCIC effectively meets all major milestones;
- Co-lead the scientific projects and write manuscripts.

The Department of Biomedical Informatics is a leading hub for computational biology, translational bioinformatics, and precision medicine. Based on the Harvard Medical School Longwood Campus, the 4D Nucleome DCIC is part of a vibrant community of scientists, physicians, and engineers whose goal is to advance the boundaries of knowledge. The working environment combines the best features of a startup (fast pace, flexibility, flat hierarchies) with those of one of the leading medical schools (excellent benefits, outstanding opportunities for learning, great resources, name recognition).

## Required skills and experience:

- PhD in genomics, bioinformatics, or related fields;
- Expertise in genomics and cell biology;
- 3+ years postdoctoral experience in bioinformatics;
- Experience in managing teams;
- Excellent organization skills;
- Excellent interpersonal communication and writing skills;
- Exceptional attention to detail;
- Strong leadership skills.


## Highly preferred experience:

- Experience in a leading role in scientific consortia;
- Experience with cloud based platforms;
- Experience with web frameworks;
- Experience developing data standards and metadata standards;
- Research experience studying cell nuclear architecture and function.


- Analysis of high-throughput sequencing data. 
- Analysis of 3C-based methods. 
- Software pipeline management.
- Image data analysis.
- Version Control, in particular Git.
- AWS environment.
- Open-source software development.
- OMERO
- R, C/C++, Java

## To apply
Please send a cover letter and CV to [joanna_lee@hms.harvard.edu](mailto:joanna_lee@hms.harvard.edu).


