---
layout: position
key: senior-data-curator-01
title: Senior Data Curator
site: Harvard Medical School 
detail_link: https://sjobs.brassring.com/tgwebhost/jobdetails.aspx?jobId=1181982&PartnerId=25240&SiteId=5341&type=mail
---
# Duties & Responsibilities
We are looking for a motivated and experienced Senior Data Curator to join the Department of Biomedical Informatics at Harvard Medical School, for an exciting opportunity in steering how cutting-edge data from a new major NIH initiative will be collected, curated, and displayed.

The Department of Biomedical Informatics at Harvard Medical School is the home to the Data Coordination and Integration Center (DCIC) for the NIH 4D Nucleome Project, which was launched in October 2015. 4D Nucleome is a $25 million per year NIH Common Fund program aiming to understand the principles behind the three-dimensional organization of the nucleus in space and time, via new mapping and imaging tools (https://commonfund.nih.gov/4Dnucleome/index). In collaboration with colleagues at the Harvard Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences and MIT, the DCIC will design, implement, and maintain an innovative open-source, cloud-based software environment for the management, analysis, and visualization of data generated by the 4D Nucleome Consortium.

The Senior Data Curator will be an essential project member who will interact with international research laboratories and be responsible for creating and managing the metadata necessary to describe the high-throughput data produced by the 4DN consortium. The individual will take a leading role in the specification, design, and implementation of tools that integrate, search, and display these high-throughput data, while overseeing junior data curators and working closely with the software engineering and bioinformatics staff. The successful candidate must be able to learn and work independently, yet collaborate effectively with co-workers.

Duties also include:
- Design, implement, and revise metadata standards to describe the high-throughput data produced by the 4DN consortium. 
- Communicate with the 4DN data production centers to facilitate successful data and metadata submission; identify and resolve any issues that arise. 
- Communicate with the 4DN-DCIC scientists to provide feedback on quality control (QC) assessment and receive input on the metadata implementation of QC metrics. 
- Communicate the technical needs of the data production centers and the data cutator(s) themselves to the 4DN-DCIC software developers to guide tool development. 
- Oversee junior data curators. 
- Write documentation and FAQs. 
- Write publications on metadata design for data curation community.

The Department of Biomedical Informatics is a leading hub for computational biology, translational bioinformatics, and precision medicine. Based on the Harvard Medical School Longwood Campus, the 4D Nucleome DCIC is part of a vibrant community of scientists, physicians, and engineers whose goal is to advance the boundaries of knowledge. The working environment combines the best features of a startup (fast pace, flexibility, flat hierarchies) with those of one of the leading medical schools (excellent benefits, outstanding opportunities for learning, great resources, name recognition).

# Basic Qualificiations
- PhD in Biology, Bioinformatics, or a related field and 3 years work experience, or a master’s degree and 5 years' experience in data curation.
- Technical expertise in genetics, molecular biology, bioinformatics or related field.
- Experience with modern high-throughput genomics or microscopy experiments and their data types.

# Additional Qualifications
- Experience with data quality assessment.
- Experience with basic computer programming / scripting languages.
- Experience with REST APIs, relational databases, software development environments, and version control.
- Working knowledge of Python and/or R.
- Familiarity with controlled vocabularies and ontologies.  
- Ability to work independently, manage own time and learn quickly.
- Project management skills including team management, issue management, and change management.
- Strong verbal and written communication skills.
- Ability to understand scientific literature, experimental. procedures and their limitations, and current needs of the research community.
