---
layout: position
key: software-developer-02
title: Back-End Web Developer
category: developer
site: Harvard Medical School 
detail_link: https://sjobs.brassring.com/tgwebhost/jobdetails.aspx?jobId=1226276&PartnerId=25240&SiteId=5341&type=mail
---
# Duties & Responsibilities
We are looking for a web application developer to join the Department of Biomedical Informatics at Harvard Medical School, for an exciting opportunity in building the core data management and analysis framework of a new major NIH initiative in the AWS cloud environment.

The Department of Biomedical Informatics at Harvard Medical School is the home to the Data Coordination and Integration Center (DCIC, dcic.4dnucleome.org) for the NIH 4D Nucleome Project, which was launched in October 2015. In collaboration with colleagues at the Harvard Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences and MIT, the DCIC will design, implement, and maintain an innovative open-source, cloud-based software environment for the management, analysis, and visualization of data generated by the 4D Nucleome Consortium.

As a team, we strive to make our tools readily usable by experimental and computational scientists and work closely with them. This is a great opportunity to be involved in cutting-edge biomedical research and the open-source bioinformatics community. 

The software developer will be part of the small team responsible for the design and implementation of the data management and analysis framework in collaboration with faculty, postdoctoral researchers, and staff. The successful candidate must be able to learn and work independently, yet collaborate effectively with co-workers. The work will take place in a dynamic environment where specifications can change rapidly, so the candidate must be able to be flexible in their software design and implementation.

Responsibilities include:
- Participation in technical analysis, design, and implementation of complex system architecture together with the scientific team.
- Creation and maintenance of documentation for system builds and application configurations.
- Adherence to and oversight of team software development methodology.
- Other duties may also be assigned.

The Department of Biomedical Informatics is a leading hub for computational biology, translational bioinformatics, and precision medicine. Based on the Harvard Medical School Longwood Campus, the 4D Nucleome DCIC is part of a vibrant community of scientists, physicians, and engineers whose goal is to advance the boundaries of knowledge. The working environment combines the best features of a startup (fast pace, flexibility, flat hierarchies) with those of one of the leading medical schools (excellent benefits, outstanding opportunities for learning, great resources, name recognition).

Applicants should include a link to some of their code in GitHub or another repository hosting service, as well as a cover letter describing why this position interests them and how it fits their experience and interests.


# Basic Qualificiations
- Bachelors' degree in Computer Science, Bioinformatics or related field and 3 years' related experience.
- Experience in developing, testing, and deploying web-based applications.
- Experience with python web frameworks (preferably Pyramid / Pylons).
- Experience with version control systems and team software development (preferably Git).

# Additional Qualifications
- Cloud computing architectures (preferably with Amazon Web Services)
- Strong Python development skills
- Previous experience working in an academic environment 
- MSc in Bioinformatics, Computer Science or a related field 
- Ability to work independently, manage own time and learn quickly. 
- Ability to define and solve logical problems for highly technical applications.. 
- Strong communication skills with both technical and non-technical clients. 
- Ability to select, adapt, and effectively use a variety of programming methods.
- Experience working with large amounts of Data and building Data pipelines
- API design
- Automated testing, Continuous integration/deployment
